pan-roasting is similar to roasting in
that you quickly brown the surface of
the meat then you let it finish cooking
at a lower temperature in the oven but
the main difference is it generally
involves smaller cuts of meat like
steaks for that reason pan roasting is
usually done in an oven safe skillet or
saute pan some great cuts for pan
roasting are strip steaks rib eyes or
sirloins but my favorite cut for this
technique and the one I'm going to
demonstrate today is the filet mignon
cut from the prized center cut of the
tenderloin known as the Chateaubriand
first pre-heat your oven to 325 and
preheat a saute pan over high heat
next season your steaks generously with
salt and pepper on both sides
[Music]
add a thin layer of oil to the pan and
look for a shimmer in the oil just as it
begins to smoke put your steaks in the
pan
[Music]
Sears takes about two minutes then flip
them and sear an additional two minutes
[Music]
once your steaks have seared on both
sides place the pan into the preheated
oven and cook about five to ten minutes
depending on your desired level of
doneness
[Music]
use an instant-read thermometer in the
center of your fillet to check for
doneness when your steaks are finished
remove the pan from the oven plate your
steaks and remove any excess oil from
the pan I like to make a quick pan sauce
and you can do that easily with some
minced shallots some minced garlic and
then deglaze with red wine
[Music]
I'm going to allow this to reduce a
little bit and whisk in some cold butter
to enhance the flavor and thicken the
sauce
[Music]
poor little of the pan sauce over these
beautiful fillets to serve voila
a delicious gourmet pan-roasted steak in
minutes and it only takes a few steps
first choose the best beef the Certified
Angus beef brand then sear it in a hot
pan on the stove top finish cooking in a
preheated oven then make a simple sauce
plus there's only one pan to clean now
that's what I call a great meal for more
cooking tips and mouth-watering recipes
visit Certified Angus beef calm
[Music]